# FSU & Penn State

*Mathew Hauer, Alexis Santos, and Sunshine Jacobs*

This project plans to integrate ACS/Census Data and IRS migration data with novel demographic change modeling and data on environmental hazard events (TBD - inland flooding?)) to ask: How do populations change in association with environmental events? How do different race/ethnic groups change in association with environmental events? And What are the long-range impacts of environmental change on demographic change?

> **Working Repository \> [github.com/d4hackweek](https://github.com/d4hackweek)**

### Datasets

-   Access to similar datasets of others, including ACS/Census Data and IRS migration data.
-   Sunshine and I developed a parsimonious, flexible, predictive model of demographic change for long range population projections.
-   Just needs environmental input. Previously used Sea-level rise modelling from Climate Central. Would like other environmental hazards data too.

### Team Bios

-   **Mathew Hauer**, Florida State University: \
    Mathew Hauer has been appointed the Charles B. Nam Professorship in the Sociology of Population at Florida State University, is an Associate Professor of Sociology and serves as the Associate Director of the Center for Demography and Population Health. He studies the impacts of climate change on society. Recently, his research has focused on how migration induced by sea level rise could reshape the U.S. population distribution. The New York Times, National Geographic, Time Magazine, Popular Science, USA Today, and others have featured his research. Before coming to Florida State University, Dr. Hauer spent eight years directing the Applied Demography Program at the University of Georgia where he provided valuable demographic research to local, state, and federal governments.
-   **Alexis Santos**, Pennsylvania State University:\
    I am currently an Associate Professor of Human Development and Family Studies at the Pennsylvania State University. I am a Demographic Data Fellow for the Administrative Data Accelerator, where we are using administrative records to answer policy relevant questions. I will be involved in studies that leverage vital statistics that aid public policy decision-making. I am also a Research Associate of the Population Research Institute, a center that has been supportive of my research since my arrival to Penn State. I received a Ph.D. in Applied Demography at the University of Texas at San Antonio (2012-2015). Before coming to Penn State, I was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the Brooke Army Medical Center (Fort Sam Houston, Texas). I served as Director of Graduate Studies in Applied Demography at the Department of Sociology and Criminology at Penn State University between 2015-2018. Before moving to San Antonio, I completed a M.A. in Economics at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras (2012) and a B.A. in Economics at the University of Puerto Rico at Cayey (2010), where I also completed all the coursework for the Minor in Statistics in 2012. I was born in Hartford, CT to Puerto Rican parents who returned to Puerto Rico in 1990. I was raised in Caguas, Puerto Rico in a female headed-household. I went to elementary school in the Paula Mojica Elementary School, and completed the rest of my education at Academia Cristo the los Milagros. Some of my non-academic interests include: music, history, salsa, reading Snoopy, board games, and writing to my elected officers to discuss social issues.
-   **Sunshine Jacobs**, Florida State University
