# MIT & Princeton
*ChangHoon (Chang) Hahn, Sharif Islam, and Lidia Cano*

To address the broad question of How will existing flood management tools deal with future climate scenarios? Which communities will be the most affected/most protected as a result? This team is planning to integrate FEMA data from the National Flood Insurance Program, American Community Survey data, data from First Street, Meta data on perceptions of future events/risks, and possibly international data (EM-Dat and the Extreme Weather dataset). 

>**Working Repository > [github.com/d4hackweek](https://github.com/d4hackweek)**

### Datasets

- **NFIP insurance claims and CRS Scores**: proxy for losses and implementation
- **ACS Data**: community characteristics 
- **FSF**: community characteristics 
- **EM-DAT**: possibility to see what would happen internationally
- **Meta Perceptions**: to understand mismatches with future realities
- **The ExtremeWeather Dataset**: to complement the international analysis



### Team Bios

- **ChangHoon (Chang) Hahn**: I'm a postdoc at the Princeton Dept of Astrophysical Sciences . I'm interested in answering fundamental questions in cosmology and galaxy evolution using the millions of galaxies observed by large spectroscopic surveys: What is the nature of dark energy that drives the accelerated expansion of the Universe? What is the sum of neutrino masses? How do the environments of galaxies impact their evolution? My research is highly multi-disciplinary. I develop new statistical and machine learning methods, especially for simulation-based inference (a.k.a. likelihood-free inference). I am an expert in large-scale structure cosmology and galaxy evolution. I am also heavily involved in two upcoming galaxy surveys, the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI) and the Subaru Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS). I served as a co-chair of the DESI Bright Galaxy Survey Working Group for the past three years and I am currently a co-leader of the PFS Cosmology Survey.
- **Sharif Islam**: Sharif Islam is a postdoctoral research associate in the Space Enabled research group at Media Lab at MIT. He is also a fellow of Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP) and Future Earth Coasts (FEC). His research interests include coastal erosion, flooding, and drought vulnerabilities and displacement due to climate change and extreme events. His work involves applying remote sensing, geographic information (GIS), and statistical tools and techniques to satellite/geospatial data to better understand environmental changes and consequences. Sharif holds a doctorate degree in Geospatial and Environmental Analysis from Virginia Tech, double master's degree in geography (from Kent State) and applied statistics (from Virginia Tech), and a bachelor’s degree in Environmental Science from Bangladesh.
- **Lidia Cano**: Lidia Cano Pecharroman is a PhD Candidate at MIT  Department of Urban Studies and Planning specializing on Environmental Policy Planning for extreme climate events. She is also an attorney and policy analyst with  a focus on natural resources management for security, conflict prevention and climate policy. Lidia has published work on water security and management policy, human rights and environmental governance in the extractive sector, and the role of civil society in conflict prevention amongst others. Previously Lidia was a Legal and Policy Advisor at Climate, Law and Policy, an independent advisory organisation that helps design, implement and sustain advances in environmental governance, she was also consultant and researcher providing research and analysis to governments, international organizations and the private sector. Along those lines she collaborated as an attorney and researcher with the UC Berkeley Center for the Law, Energy and Environment, Radon Law Offices, LSE and the Natural Resources and Governance Institute, but her research has also served different UN agencies and governments. Previously she was a Fulbright Scholar and Research Fellow for the Columbia University Women, Peace and Security program working on the nexus between gender, security and natural resources exploitation.She has also worked on the design of conflict prevention strategies for the mining sector and on land allocation processes in Latin America, and on a solar energy venture in Pakistan.Before her masters at Columbia University she worked on Nature Rights and environmental conflicts at the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) Division for Sustainable Development, and monitoring peacekeeping missions at the UN Operations and Crisis Center. Lidia holds an MIA from Columbia University with a concentration on Energy and Natural Resources Management and a specialization on International Conflict Resolution, and a Masters on International Affairs and African Studies by Universidad Autonoma de Madrid and New York University and a Law Degree by the Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, she is a member of the Madrid Bar Association.
