# UMiami, CU Boulder & Portland State

*Ethan Sharygin, Justin Stoler, and Mary Angelica Painter*

This newly formed team is considering addressing the following questions: - How are people displaced after a wildfire and what are their characteristics? How are water insecurity and distrust in water utilities and services related and shaped by hazard experiences? And What is the relationship between government capacity, community resiliency, and weather events? Data under consideration for integration to address these questions include 2024 nationally representative survey data with modules on water insecurity and institutional trust, migration destinations post-wildfire, rural capacity index, local hazard mitigation plan status, and community resiliency estimates. - Estimate population displacement effects from sudden onset disaster and compare network of migration destinations after sudden onset disaster to regular migration pathways, commute patterns, and parametric migration models.

> **Working Repository \> [github.com/d4hackweek](https://github.com/d4hackweek)**

### Datasets

-   2024 nationally representative survey data with modules on water insecurity and institutional trust.
-   Migration destinations post-wildfire.
-   Rural capacity index, local hazard mitigation plan status, and community resiliency estimates.

*Note: still finalizing our research questions and our project(s); Data integration is TBD.*

### Team Bios

-   **Ethan Sharygin**, Portland State University: \
    Ethan Sharygin is the Director of the Population Research Center at Portland State University, which annually produces population estimates and forecasts, analyzes census data to support policy research and implementation, and represents Oregon in partnerships with the U.S. Census Bureau. His recent work focuses on census data quality and related methodology, including methods for geographic allocation of census data for small areas. Sharygin’s prior research addressed demography-related topics including assignment of race and ethnicity in survey data, demographic consequences of disaster including famine and wildfire, mortality and longevity forecasting, and methods of evaluating census coverage and quality. Sharygin has a B.A. degree from the University of Washington, an M.P.P. from UC Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in demography from the University of Pennsylvania.
-   **Justin Stoler**, University of Miami: \
    Dr. Stoler is a Professor of Geography and Sustainable Development at the University of Miami where he is also affiliated with the Department of Public Health Sciences and the Abess Center for Ecosystem Science & Policy. His research explores urban health disparities using social, environmental, and spatial epidemiological methods. Dr. Stoler enjoys field work and has worked in several countries—including over a decade of experience in Accra, Ghana—exploring links between neighborhood structure, geodemographics, the environment, communicable diseases, and water insecurity. Dr. Stoler directs the Social & Health Inequities Research & Education (SHIRE) Lab, which provides research and professional development opportunities to students at all levels. His courses blend geospatial frameworks with contemporary population, environmental, and global health issues.
-   **Mary Angelica Painter**, University of Colorado Boulder: \
    Mary Angelica Painter is a research associate at the Natural Hazards Center at the University of Colorado Boulder, a co-founder of the SOLVER (Social Vulnerability & Resilience) Research Laboratory, and a CONVERGE Data Ambassador. Her research expertise includes developing and adopting new ways to understand and engage with vulnerable communities in the context of natural hazards, while also incorporating the effects of the role of government, policy, and politics in disaster mitigation and response. She has particular interest in understanding individual, household, and community risk to natural hazards because of social, economic, and political inequality, widely referred to as social vulnerability. Mary Angelica has a PhD in political science and a background in research methodologies, specifically survey, quantitative, and mixed-methods approaches. Her work is driven by a philosophy of collaboration, where communities, decision makers, researchers, and everyday people are involved in identifying problems and finding solutions together for those who are in most need.
