# Floaters
*Jason Stock, Tyler Fricker, and Patrick Greiner*

## Team Bios

- **Jason Stock**: A computer science PhD candidate at Colorado State University (prev. MS and BS), focusing on machine learning for weather and climate. He is currently a member of the NSF AI Institute for Research on Trustworthy AI in Weather, Climate, and Coastal Oceanography (AI2ES) and is collaborating with the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA). His primary research interests are in neuro-inspired attention, generative diffusion models, and interpretable-by-design algorithms. He was previously interning at NVIDIA and Maxar, developing AI algorithms for atmospheric science applications, and at Boeing as a software engineer.
- **Tyler Fricker**: Tyler Fricker is an assistant professor in the School of Sciences and Atmospheric Science Program at the University of Louisiana Monroe. He is an environmental geographer and climatologist who focuses on applied climatology and human-environment interaction through the study of natural hazards using statistical, computational, and geospatial (i.e., GIS and remote sensing) methods. His research interests are, broadly, in the environmental impacts of natural hazards on society and the connection between weather and climate and much of his work bridges the gap between climate change science and climate-society interaction. Tyler holds a doctorate and master’s degree from Florida State University (Geography), and a bachelor’s degree from The Ohio State University (Environment and Natural Resources).
- **Patrick Greiner**: I am an environmental sociologist at Vanderbilt University. My research and teaching address questions at the intersection of structural inequality, development processes, and environmental change. My work engages scholarship in the fields of environmental sociology, environmental justice, climate justice, critical theories of race, energy transitions and technological displacement, and socio-ecological systems. I currently teach Environment and Society, Environmental Inequality and Justice, and The Social Contexts of Public Policy.
